---
layout: post
title: Releasing BitvUnit 0.6 - Rule Development, Website Improvements, Library Updates
---

The next release of BitvUnit is out in the wild and it brings you six new rules available to analyze your website or web application! In total there are *36 rules* being shipped with the library itself. You can find the new rules in the "Change Log":ChangeLog.

h3. Rule Development

To speed up the development process for new rules there is a new Groovy console script waiting to be used that provides a wizard to generate all required artifacts to add a new rule. See how it works in the following snipped from my console:

{% highlight text %}
> groovy bitvunit.groovy create-rule
Author name: Stefan Glase
Rule name: MySampleRule
Rule category [forms, frames, images, interactions, links, lists, media, page, tables, text]: page
Created rule at ./bitvunit-core/src/main/java/de/codescape/bitvunit/rule/page/MySampleRule.java
Created test at ./bitvunit-core/src/test/java/de/codescape/bitvunit/rule/page/MySampleRuleTest.java
Added new rule to ruleset all-rules.xml
Done. Happy Coding!
{% endhighlight %}

That makes it dead simple to implement a new rule in a fork of the "BitvUnit Repository":BitvUnitRepository and when it is finished and tested you can easily commit it back to your Git repository and open a pull request to promote that rule into the library.

There are two more possible goals supported by the Groovy script. You can update the "Rule section":/rules/ on the documentation website with the single command <code>groovy bitvunit.groovy update-ruledocs</code> and on top of that the provided "API Docs":/apidocs can be refreshed, too, in the same way with <code>groovy bitvunit.groovy update-apidocs</code>.

h3. Website Improvements

As announced in the last post the website now comes in a much cleaner layout. With the help of the Groovy script it is now possible to present all "Rules":/rules implemented in the library and the complete API Docs on the website. The API Docs are available from the "Usage":/usage page.

h3. Library Updates

The current release of the library now depends on the latest version of Commons IO 2.1 and the updated test library JUnit 4.10. The testsuite still shows that all functionality is still working as intended. If there are any problems "Feedback":/feedback is always welcome!

See the "Change Log":ChangeLog for further details.

[ChangeLog]/changes/#r06
[BitvUnitRepository]https://github.com/codescape/bitvunit
