---
layout: default
title: Forms
---
This is a list of all rules in the category forms.

h3. AlternativeTextForImageButtonRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.6</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 AlternativeTextForImageButtonRule ensures that every image button within the given HTML document provides an alternative text through its <code>alt</code> attribute.

h3. FieldsetContainsLegendRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.5</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 FieldsetContainsLegendRule ensures that every <code><fieldset /></code> within the given HTML document contains a <code><legend /></code> tag as the first child element to describe the elements grouped by this fieldset.

h3. LabelContainsTextRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 LabelContainsTextRule ensures that every <code><label /></code> within the given HTML document contains a textual representation for the given label.

h3. LabelForInputFieldRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 LabelForInputFieldRule ensures that every <code><input /></code> field of type <code>text</code> or <code>password</code> within the given HTML document is associated with a <code><label /></code> element that references the <code><input /></code> element through its <code>for</code> attribute.

h3. LabelForSelectTagRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 LabelForInputFieldRule ensures that every <code><select /></code> tag within the given HTML document is associated with a <code><label /></code> element that references the <code><select /></code> tag through its <code>for</code> attribute.

h3. LabelForTextareaRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 LabelForTextareaRule ensures that every <code><textarea /></code> within the given HTML document is associated with a <code><label /></code> element that references the <code><textarea /></code> element through its <code>for</code> attribute.

h3. LabelWithoutFormElementRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.3</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 LabelWithoutFormElementRule ensures that every <code><label /></code> tag within the given HTML document is referencing a valid form element. The id of the form element must be equal to the for attribute of the label. Valid form elements are <code><select /></code>, <code><input /></code> and <code><textarea /></code> elements.

h3. UniqueLabelForFormElementRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author:  Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">since Version:  0.3</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

 UniqueLabelForFormElementRule ensures that there is never more than one <code><label /></code> with the same value in its <code>for</code> attribute. There should be never be more than one label pointing to a single form element.
