---
layout: default
title: Forms
permalink: forms/index.html
---

Below you can find the documentation for all rules in the category Forms.

h3. AlternativeTextForImageButtonRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.6</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

AlternativeTextForImageButtonRule ensures that every image button created through <code><input type="image"/></code> within the given HTML document provides an alternative text through it's <code>alt</code> attribute. <p/> A good example for a valid image button would look like this: <pre><code><input type="image" src="register.png" alt="Register Account"/></code></pre>

h3. FieldsetContainsLegendRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.5</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

FieldsetContainsLegendRule ensures that every <code><fieldset/></code> within the given HTML document contains a <code><legend/></code> tag as the first child element to describe the elements grouped by this <code><fieldset/></code>. <p/> A good example for a valid fieldset would look like this: <pre><code> <fieldset>   <legend>legend text</legend>   <!-- ... --> </fieldset></code></pre>

h3. LabelContainsTextRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

LabelContainsTextRule ensures that every <code><label/></code> within the given HTML document contains a textual representation for the given label.  <p/> A valid label should look like this: <pre><code><label for="element-id">Username</label></code></pre>

h3. LabelForInputFieldRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

LabelForInputFieldRule ensures that every <code><input/></code> field of type <code>text</code> or <code>password</code> within the given HTML document is associated with a <code><label/></code> element that references the <code><input/></code> element through its <code>for</code> attribute. <p/> A valid label associated with an input element should look like this: <pre><code> <label for="username">Username</label> <input type="text" id="username"/></code></pre>

h3. LabelForSelectTagRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

LabelForInputFieldRule ensures that every <code><select/></code> tag within the given HTML document is associated with a <code><label/></code> element that references the <code><select/></code> tag through its <code>for</code> attribute. <p/> A valid label associated with a select element should look like this: <pre><code> <label for="gender">Gender</label> <select id="gender">   <option>f<option>   <option>m<option> </select></code></pre>

h3. LabelForTextareaRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

LabelForTextareaRule ensures that every <code><textarea/></code> within the given HTML document is associated with a <code><label/></code> element that references the <code><textarea/></code> element through its <code>for</code> attribute. <p/> A valid label associated with a textarea element should look like this: <pre><code> <label for="comment">Comment</label> <textarea id="comment"></textarea></code></pre>

h3. LabelWithoutFormElementRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.3</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

LabelWithoutFormElementRule ensures that every <code><label/></code> tag within the given HTML document is referencing a valid form element. The <code>id</code> of the form element must be equal to the <code>for</code> attribute of the label. Valid form elements are <code><select/></code>, <code><input/></code> and <code><textarea/></code> elements.

h3. SelectFieldWithValidOptionRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.8</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

SelectFieldWithValidOptionRule ensures that every <code><select/></code> element contains minimum one enabled option and that the first possible option is not disabled. <p/> A good example for a valid select field looks like this: <pre><code> <select id="gender">   <option>female<option>   <option>male<option> </select></code></pre>

h3. UniqueLabelForFormElementRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.3</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

UniqueLabelForFormElementRule ensures that there is never more than one <code><label/></code> with the same value in its <code>for</code> attribute. There should never be more than one <code><label/></code> pointing to a single form element.
