---
layout: default
title: Text
permalink: text/index.html
---

Below you can find the documentation for all rules in the category Text.

h3. AvoidBlinkTextRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

AvoidBlinkTextRule ensures that every <code><blink /></code> element within the given HTML document leads to a violation because the <code><blink /></code> tag result in blinking text that cannot be stopped and it is not defined in any W3C HTML specification.

h3. AvoidBoldTagRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.2</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

AvoidBoldTagRule ensures that every <code><b /></code> element within the given HTML document leads to a violation because the <code><strong /></code> element should be used to outline important text.

h3. AvoidItalicTagRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.2</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

AvoidItalicTagRule ensures that every <code><i /></code> element within the given HTML document leads to a violation because the <code><em /></code> element should be used to outline important text.

h3. AvoidMarqueeTextRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

AvoidMarqueeTextRule ensures that every <code><marquee /></code> element within the given HTML document leads to a violation because the <code><marquee /></code> results in moving text that cannot be stopped and it is not defined in any W3C HTML specification.

h3. HeadingContainsTextRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.6</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

HeadingContainsTextRule ensures that all headings from <code><h1 /></code> to <code><h6 /></code> within the given HTML document contain some text content.

h3. HeadingsInCorrectOrderRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.2</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

HeadingsInCorrectOrderRule ensures that all headings from <code><h1 /></code> to <code><h6 /></code> within the given HTML document are in correct oder. That means the following rules must be satisfied: The first heading on the given page must be the only one of type <code><h1 /></code>. All other headings may only be one level deeper and all levels higher than the previous heading.

h3. TitleForAbbreviationTagRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

TitleForAbbreviationTagRule ensures that every abbreviation that is marked through the <code><abbr /></code> element within the given HTML document provides a description of that abbreviation through its <code>title</code> attribute.

h3. TitleForAcronymTagRule

<aside class="rule-meta">
    <ul>
        <li class="author">Author: Stefan Glase</li>
        <li class="version">Since: 0.1</li>
    </ul>
</aside>

TitleForAcronymTagRule ensures that every acronym that is marked through the <code><acronym /></code> element within the given HTML document provides a description of that acronym through its <code>title</code> attribute.
